hey what's up guys explanation pro is
here today i'll explain a war action
film title midway spoiler ahead watch
out and take care the movie midway tells
the story of the famous battle of midway
that is said to be the turning point of
the pacific theater during the second
world war because it is historical the
story's focus is not on a singular
character instead it is a story shared
between the americans and the japanese
the movie begins in tokyo it is 1937 and
a meeting between the americans the
british and the japanese had just
finished
a japanese officer isoroku yamamoto
cryptically tells the then-american
naval attache edward layton about what
could happen if america cut off the oil
supply of japan
he then wants leighton to say this
warning to washington layton does so but
this warning is not heated
four years later on december 7 1941 the
uss enterprise is conducting scouting
missions away from pearl harbor
dick best a cocky young pilot is
practicing with his radio man james
murray to land a plane without using the
flaps and the engine shut off
his friend dickinson tells him that
they're superior mccluskey is not happy
with the stun he just pulled
later that day the japanese launched a
surprise attack against the american
stationed in pearl harbor
the japanese primarily targeted the
american ships that were docked during
that time
in one of these ships the uss arizona an
officer named ron pierce saves a young
crew member from impending death before
dying himself
this officer is one of dick best's
friends not knowing where they are
coming from the crew from uss enterprise
attempts to find the japanese carrier
south of pearl harbor but they fail
because the japanese are actually
located in the north
upon arriving in pearl harbor the crew
of the uss enterprise sees the damage
caused by the surprise attack
he also learns that his friend is one of
the men that died aboard the uss arizona
from his friend's scorched remains best
recovers his friend's burnt watch and
wedding ring so that he can return it to
his friend's wife a day after the attack
the united states of america soon
declared war against the japanese back
in america fleet admiral chester nimitz
receives an order to oversee the war in
the pacific until its very end
nimitz has no choice but to accept the
role given to him
meanwhile after returning ron's things
to his wife best gives a speech about
his deceased friend in a bar
while walking drunkenly outside they see
nimitz's car passing by best shouts at
him about going back at the japanese for
what they have done afterward leighton
now a lieutenant commander meets with
the newly assigned nimitz in his office
nimitz who recognizes layton as a
brilliant intelligence officer wants
layton to be by his side and predict
what the japanese might do
february 1 1942 the uss enterprise
launches an attack against the japanese
on marshall islands
after seeing a runway full of bombers
best immediately engages and
successfully bombs the airfield
however the japanese retaliate by
attacking uss enterprise but they
immediately fend them off
back in hawaii best and his wife attend
a party in the offices club
best's wife meets and greets dickinson
and mccluskey while best is away in
getting a drink his wife asks why he's
not in command of any squadron and
mccluskey replies that best has no
regard for his and other's life
best on the other hand meets leighton at
the bar
after gathering the drinks best then
invites his wife to dance together
before retiring for the night april 18
1942 while briefing the new pilot
recruits aboard uss enterprise best and
the other crew members sees a group of
army bomber planes on a carrier
the commander of these bombers is
lieutenant colonel james doolittle and
they intend to bomb tokyo and land on
free china
afterward the bombing of tokyo is
successfully conducted by doolittle's
crew
however because fuel has run out the
team has to jump on an undetermined
place
alone yamamoto contemplates the recent
bombing saying that it is a failure for
the japanese because the americans have
successfully penetrated their capital
while also risking the life of their
emperor at the time
an officer tells him that he is needed
for the coming invasion of the midway
islands
in an unknown part of china doolittle
gets surrounded by chinese soldiers
he informs them that he needs to head to
cujo but the locals do not understand
him
luckily a teacher is nearby and helps in
translating what doolittle is saying
after learning that doolittle and his
men had successfully bombed japan the
chinese soldier's demeanor changes
warmly welcoming him and escorting him
to kujo
on their way to kujo doolittle and other
evacuating chinese get attacked by
japanese fighter planes
doolittle is horrified by this attack
after learning that the japanese
intentionally attacked civilians and not
just army installations
they then continue to carry on to kujo
back in pearl harbor nimitz learns that
the japanese are attacking coral sea and
he wants the uss enterprise to join the
other american ships assigned there
leighton stops nimitz and tells him of a
theory it is possible that coral sea is
just a warm up by the japanese and
planting something much bigger
but because leyton still does not know
this possible plan nimitz continues his
earlier order
may 8th 1942 the uss enterprise arrives
late in coral sea
the commander of the ship william halsey
tells mccluskey and best that they are
now being assigned different positions
mccluskey is now in charge of the air
group and is also a dive bomber on the
other hand vest is now a leader of a
bombing squadron meanwhile inside a war
room the japanese officers are
conducting a war game regarding the
attack on midway islands
they are having a dispute about their
simulation because one of the officers a
young one presents a scenario wherein
the americans are already waiting for
them so he attacks their carriers while
they have the upper hand
however the older officer believes that
the americans will never know about the
attack
thus they will have time to retreat
because the americans will be coming
from pearl harbor
yamamoto who just entered the room
advises them to reset the simulation but
the americans will be coming from pearl
harbor this time
at pearl harbor nimitz informs leighton
that he has just come off of a phone
call from washington telling leighton
that the higher-ups think he is wrong
about his earlier theory
leighton disagrees with this saying that
it will be a mistake for the uss
enterprise to stay in coral sea
nimitz asks leighton where he thinks the
japanese will head leyton believes it is
the midway islands leyton then explains
that it is logical because the midway
islands could be the japanese's stepping
stone toward hawaii and that this might
happen in a few weeks
nimitz then tells leighton that he would
like to meet leighton's intelligence
team
leighton informs nimitz that his trusted
intelligence officer rochefort has a
particular way of doing things at the
intelligence office
he also tells nimitz that their code
breakers are musicians from california
believing that they are suitable for
cracking the rhythm of ciphers
upon meeting rochefort nimitz already
notices his odd demeanor nimitz asks
rochefort for a tour around the
intelligence office to see how it works
rochefort explains to nimitz that
washington's intelligence asserts that
the japanese will attack a target code
named af
however washington believes that this af
is located in the south pacific and
rochefort disagrees
although all they have are clues at the
moment rochefort thinks that washington
is wrong
nimitz decides to believe in them
afterward nimitz informs leighton that
washington intercepted a message from
the japanese
this intercepted message confirms that
the target is indeed midway islands
because of this information the soldiers
at midway islands immediately fortified
their base
now that he is a leader of a bombing
squadron best briefs his team to
exercise and improve their skills
after the briefing a soldier tells best
that he is scared
best tells the soldier to be confident
telling him that he will now be his
wingman
however after a miscommunication best
wingman falls to the sea
the ship then hits the plane's wing and
gets overturned killing the soldier
inside
best feels guilty afterward the next day
nimitz visits halsey telling him that he
needs to rest in a hospital in pearl
harbor
halsey refuses but nimitz tells him that
it is a direct order that night bess
tells his wife that he does not know how
to lead his men properly but his wife
motivates him that he can do it
nimitz asks for a ship uss yorktown to
be immediately fixed for the upcoming
battle of midway
later that day nimitz layton and other
high-ranking officers have a meeting
about the plan
at first they're hesitant because the
plan seems to be made out of guesses but
layton reassures them by telling them
the exact time and place of a japanese
attack after a briefing best and
mccluskey talk about the upcoming battle
with best asking him for advice because
he still does not know how to lead
after that the soldiers cheer for the
return of uss yorktown which effectively
boosts their morale
on the morning of june 4th 1942 best
motivates his men telling them that they
are ready because they are skilled
at 6 40 am the japanese finally attacked
the midway islands thus officially
starting the battle of the midway
at 7 10 am american fighter planes from
midway islands attacked the japanese
fleet
the japanese are prepared for them but
they still almost got one of their
carriers blown off by the attack
aboard the uss enterprise the soldiers
prepare for takeoff
a japanese scouting plane spots the
american fleet after learning of this
the japanese commander exclaims in
disbelief the commander then orders his
men to attack the fleet instead of
midway islands
at 7 45 am uss nautilus a submarine
manages to locate a carrier and targets
it they fire a torpedo at it but it
narrowly misses the carrier on the other
hand uss enterprises planes are finally
launched to battle
while flying upward bess discovers that
his oxygen tank is filled with something
else other than oxygen he starts
coughing madly as a result they start
searching for the fleet after a while
mccluskey spots a trailing japanese
warship he decides to follow it despite
the possibility of being wrong after
noticing that the american planes are
flying too low which is a sign that they
might have come from a carrier instead
of the midway islands a japanese
commander advises his fellow commander
to launch an attack
the commander already knows this but the
planes are taking a long time to replace
their weapons and ammunition
the planes from uss enterprise finally
arrive on the scene with mccluskey
leading the charge
he dive bombs a carrier but the bomb
narrowly misses the target he also gets
injured while fighting off an enemy
plane
meanwhile dickinson and other pilots
successfully hit two carriers leaving
only two enemy carriers out of four
after a while best in his radio man
murray also succeeds in hitting a
carrier after dive bombing it they also
manage to escape chasing japanese planes
yamamoto who is aboard the battleship
yamato gets informed of the sinking of
three carriers
yamamoto grimly tells them that the
americans knew about their attack but he
also tells them that there might still
be a way to win
best and murray managed to return to uss
enterprise because he is wounded
mccluskey is ordered not to return to
the fight best is ordered to gather his
men
on his way to gather soldiers best
coughs blood due to what happened
earlier with the oxygen tank
despite their losses best manages to
encourage the remaining soldiers to
return
murray however does not want to return
due to best recklessness
but after best insisted murray
reluctantly agrees at 4 56 pm the planes
from uss enterprise returned to attack
the japanese fleet
best manages to dive bomb the remaining
carrier of the fleet exclaiming that it
is revenge for pearl harbor
as the sun is going down the americans
decide that it is time to retreat
bess still has not returned despite one
of his wingmen already arriving earlier
back at home the soldiers housewives
received the news of the battle best's
wife cries at the possible death of his
husband but miraculously best and murray
returned just in time as their engine
shuts down
the soldiers cheer for their return back
at the last japanese carrier the
commanders decided that the carrier
should be destroyed to not fall into the
americans hands
they also decide to go down with their
ship dying with it
by yamamoto's order the japanese have
officially retreated signaling the end
of the battle and a victory for the
americans
the movie ends with information about
the characters nimitz stays as the
pacific fleet commander until its end
while halsey returns to duty and becomes
one of america's greatest generals
yamamoto gets killed in action in the
solomon islands campaign doolittle
manages to return to america dickinson
becomes the first pilot to receive three
navy crosses mccluskey eventually gets
to command his fleet while also having
his name attached to an award
leighton stays with nimitz until the end
of the war eventually releasing a book
about his and rochefort's contribution
to the war
best becomes one of only two pilots to
sink multiple carriers in one day he
also never returns to piloting due to
his sickness
thank you so much for watching if you
enjoyed this video please hit the like
button and also subscribe my channel for
more videos like this
see you in the next video